Enliven and clean up DE notebook with added RMS readme (#612)
AlexsLemonade/training-modules: scRNA-seq-advanced/04-differential_expression.Rmd

Here we should have both the original (uncorrected) data and the integrated (corrected) data for both the gene expression and the reduced dimensionality results.
How are those stored in our object?

```{r print sce, live=TRUE}
# print out entire object
integrated_sce
```

```{r print assay names, live=TRUE}
# look at the assay names in our object
assayNames(integrated_sce)
```

When we look at the assay names we should see that there are 3 matrices, `counts`, `logcounts`, and `fastmnn_corrected`. 
The `counts` and `logcounts` assays correspond to the uncorrected gene expression data that has been merged but NOT integrated.
The `fastmnn_corrected` data contains the corrected gene expression data obtained from integration. 
For this exercise we will not be using the `fastmnn_corrected` data (more on why not once we get to setting up the differential expression), but we need to be aware that it is present and be able to distinguish it from our uncorrected data. 

```{r print reducedDim names, live=TRUE}

> # look at the names of the dimension reduction present in the SCE object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# look at the names of the dimension reductions present in the SCE object
```

reducedDimNames(integrated_sce)
```

> In the `reducedDim` slots you should see `PCA` and `UMAP` which both correspond to the pre-integrated dimension reduction results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `reducedDim` slots you should see `PCA` and `UMAP`, which were both calculated from the combined data _before_ integration.
```

  as.data.frame() |>
  # merge with sample metadata 
  dplyr::left_join(sample_metadata, by = c("sample" = "library_id")) |>
  # create new columns

>   # cell_id is combination of barcode and sample

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  # cell_id is a combination of barcode and sample
```

>   # cell_id is combination of barcode and sample

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # cell_id is the combination of barcode and sample
```

Reviewer: Noting I've just seen that @jashapiro also left a review here but with "a" instead of "the," and either is fine!

  "SCPCL000491"
)

# subset sce to only contain samples of interest 
samples_to_keep <- integrated_sce$sample %in% library_ids
rms_sce <- integrated_sce[,samples_to_keep]

> 

Reviewer: For the next `remove sce` chunk, I'd take the comment out of the chunk and turn into regular text as bit clearer transition to the removal.

Before we can compare the gene expression profiles of myoblasts in ARMS vs. ERMS samples, we will need to "pseudo-bulk" the gene counts. 
Pseudo-bulking creates a new counts matrix that contains the sum of the counts from all cells with a given label (e.g., cell type) for each sample ([Tung _et al._, 2017](https://doi.org/10.1038/srep39921)). 
If we were to keep each cell's counts separate, they would be treated as replicates, leading to inflated statistics. 
By pseudo-bulking first, we will now have one count for each gene for each sample and we can take advantage of well-established methods for differential expression with bulk RNA-seq.

> Pseudo-bulking is implemented prior to differential expression analysis on single-cell data for the following reasons: 

Reviewer: I'd rephrase this slightly to match with bullets - 
```suggestion
Pseudo-bulking is implemented prior to differential expression analysis on single-cell data because it: 
```

We can set a threshold for the number of cells required to continue with our analysis and remove any groups that do not meet the minimum threshold.
Here we will use 10, but the threshold you use for your dataset can vary depending on the composition of cell types.

```{r filter pseudobulk, live=TRUE}

> # remove any groups with less than 10 cells

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# remove any groups with fewer than 10 cells
```

It looks like we only got rid of one group.
We can do a quick check to see which group was removed by finding which column is no longer present in the filtered object.

> ```{r removed columns, live=TRUE}

Reviewer: I might not make this live but instead swap over the next-up `filter celltype` chunk to become live? What do you think?

Author: I think my original reason for not making the next chunk live is to make sure that we try and avoid trainee spelling mistakes for `Tumor_Myoblasts` when filtering. I'm trying to limit the smaller mistakes and having empty SCE objects going into DE.

We can save the new data frame that we have created with the Ensembl identifiers, gene symbols, and the `DESeq2` results as a tab separated (`tsv`) file.

```{r save deseq, live=TRUE}
# save our results as tsv
readr::write_tsv(deseq_results, deseq_output_file)
```

The last thing that we will do is take a look at how many genes are significant.
Here we will want to use the adjusted p-value, found in the `padj` column of the results, as this accounts for multiple test correction.

> ```{r significant results}

Reviewer 2: I might make this live?
```suggestion
```{r significant results, live=TRUE}
```
